Neal Sáles-Griffin: Unshare and refresh.
Lilliana Robinson: It's good to see you all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think I did it. Lilian, did you want to make any tech stars? Related announcements before we kick things off here?
Lilliana Robinson: Everything should be in your to do list that I went over on Friday. Does anyone have any questions now that you've had some time to look at those assignments.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm always here. You can ping me on base camp if you have questions. But all of the due dates and everything should be in there.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, I think that's about it. We I did want to mention the David Cohen welcome call, Neil, if you want to just give some background that's going to be on Thursday.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Oh, yeah, I mean, I think that's really important for us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for us in particular, because we have a reputation to uphold right, Liliana.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The welcome call with David is a way for you all to not only meet our CEO, but also see all of the other founders across all of the other programs, which is really cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I think there's going to be a special kind of eye on you all, because you're the 1st San Francisco class.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they're going to be like, what's up with these companies? Where are they at? What's their deal? You know? What's the vibe. So I want you all to come out swinging.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And what I mean by that is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know you give 1st you're engaged.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You like you will bring the energy that will lift up the entire class of text companies all across the globe. I think we're launching programs, including yours. I think there's what 28
Neal Sáles-Griffin: program starting.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So 28 classes of companies. So it's gonna be a whole bunch of people on this call.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And and and I think you all being the 1st ever San Francisco City program is going to be meaningful. And you know, I want to make sure that we have a culture of both positivity support both of each other and of the remaining the rest of the tech Stars classes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So leaders among leaders
Neal Sáles-Griffin: got me. I think I get it. I think they're smiling and nodding and stuff I see, like the right kind of reactions. That's good.
Lilliana Robinson: I think it's just important to come correct on that call. It'll be at.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And.
Lilliana Robinson: Am our time so a little bit early, but definitely worth it as it's a global call, like, it's kind of outside of hours for us, but
Lilliana Robinson: coming with genuinely thought, provoking questions for David, not just like the 1st thing off the top of your head shows some really good respect to him, and respect for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a great point, Leon, cause you know what? There are times where founders will ask like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a very basic question, in a way where it's like, wow! You didn't even look up who this person was. So just be mindful of like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how pointed your questions are. You know you've been. You've been prepped and trained properly already, though, so it's all good.
Lilliana Robinson: You guys are already very thoughtful and resourceful founders, but we've just seen
Lilliana Robinson: founders in the past from other programs. Ask questions that I would be embarrassed if our co-founders asked, because David's time is very valuable. And he's done this forever. Even when he wasn't CEO when he was chairman, he would do these welcome calls, and I think it's like a very rare time that you can just ask him anything so like. Take advantage of that. And like, actually think of questions. I think that that's really important.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. And then we have another order of business. We have Fabio here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I guess.
Fabio Caironi: Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: From our 12th company is finally joining the fray. So now we're like fully, we have all the avengers. Do you want to introduce yourself, Fabio?
Fabio Caironi: Yeah, sure, I didn't want to jump in, but you know I was ready for the right moment. And yeah, nice to meet you all. Sorry I missed the chance to attend the previous sessions, but I kind of already got to know you by watching them. My name is Fabi. I'm the founder of White Knight. We do distributed computing for batch processing powered by crowdsource harder. So yeah, we'll get to know each other along the way. I'm so excited to be here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, Fabio, we gotta unpack that just for one more layer. You gotta tell them more of what that means, cause I'm sure some people were like excited and other people like. What is he talking about?
Fabio Caironi: Sure. So we basically, we run computations on crowdsource devices. Which means like your computer or a business server. So we basically decentralize a data center into crowdsource assets. And we do that to power intensive computations, such as AI training or video processing or Etl processes. So we're doing this for the benefit of power
Fabio Caironi: customers that are startups or developers who need a intensive computing capabilities for a cheaper price.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, alright, let's get it interesting. It sounds hard, but I'm excited. I'm excited to do it. I had to. We had to go through a few additional layers of scrutiny internally at techsars to like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: make sure that we could help by night succeed. But I'm really happy to have Fabio on board with us. He's he's been a pleasure to onboard, so cool, cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Thanks, Fabio. Okay, we're ready to jump right in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright! Let me share my screen again. And then, Lilian, I kind of gave my version of a background on this already, so I'm curious to give for you to give yours. But I'll give him a quick run of show. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah, we did our small talk. So we're done with that that's great. I want to give you a few use cases of project management within the class of like, you know, examples where we've seen success and and some
Neal Sáles-Griffin: transformations. I think. I'll go over some very basic principles. I might run through them fast, because I think they're all kind of common sense, and and just more refreshers and reminders for folks. So if you need me to slow down, I will. But the plan is to blaze through it and share the deck later. So you can revisit the principles if you need to, and then I'll give a little bit more of my personal journey with project management, which I think will color my perspective and give you all some hints as to how I could be helpful to you specifically, if you want to work with me on anything I love.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Scoping work. By the way, it's like one of my favorite things to do. It's strange, special interest. So if you do want to sit down as the founder of your business and go. Am I working on all the right things like? Let me add it. I'll help you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then we'll demonstrate what we do to organize our own work, which is the impetus for this workshop, in the 1st place, was certain. Founders saw how we operated.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they asked us to show
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how we do things so that they could. They could do that. We're like, all right cool, and I guess they found that interesting. Liliana's played a huge role in that lately.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then we'll wrap up with part one
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where we will give you all a few exercises to make things real.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's not just a talking at you day. This is a I'll give you some ideas in the beginning, and then you will actually have to look at yourselves
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: show your work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's what we'll be doing today. For those of you that are here. So I'm looking forward to that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so cool background on the workshop. So, Liliana, from your own words, I think, is best, because I gave them my little speech before you got here.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, I'm not sure what you covered. But I added this slide this morning when I was going through these slides because I thought it was important to explain where this workshop came from. So
Lilliana Robinson: a couple of programs ago, I think we've been doing this like 4 times already. So I would say, like 5 programs ago, we had a bunch of founders in the middle of program, super stressed telling us they like had no idea what they needed to do. All of their to do's were everywhere. It was during a CEO call, so the Ceos were kind of confiding in Neil, and they were telling him, and I was there.
Lilliana Robinson: That they just felt like their head was underwater, and a lot of them felt that way, and they felt like their work was spread across all these tools. They couldn't get their team to like, be aligned on things. They had no idea what their team was doing. It was hard for them to manage tech stars with all of their tasks.
Lilliana Robinson: and they needed more time, or they they just thought they needed all of these different things. And then Neil and I were thinking, if only they knew kind of like, how we ran things for project management for ourselves, it might help them. And also he and I are very passionate about project management. So like hearing them all have such issues where it was kind of like hard to hear, because we care about you guys. So we quickly spun up like, not what you're seeing now.
Lilliana Robinson: but a very rudimentary version of this, where we were like. This is how we work. This is what we believe in for project management. You guys should try it.
Lilliana Robinson: And it worked. It helped a lot of the founders they were able to not just use. It wasn't about getting them onto base camp. It was about teaching them using basecamp you're going to use base camp today as like an exercise. But a lot of them were able to bring it back to whatever
Lilliana Robinson: you know. Whole tool they had set up for their company, and they were able to breathe a lot more easily. They felt like they could implement a lot of the processes or principles that we suggest today. And then they were able to like, have goals set goals, make sure their team was meeting those goals, and then they held each other accountable.
Lilliana Robinson: So another thing from today is you'll see we're going to use the CEO project a lot, and you guys will be able to use each other as accountability buddies, because that also really helped.
Lilliana Robinson: So after we saw that that really helped when we like spun up this like what I would call an emergency workshop in the middle of program, which happens a lot of the time. Like you all you guys might have a very urgent need. We haven't anticipated, and we just spin something up for you. That's part of what makes this like a white glove experience and.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm calling it. Now. It's going to be related to something with San Francisco, like, I just don't know, you know. So we're going to learn something new about the city, and figure it out together.
Lilliana Robinson: And we'll do a workshop on it. I believe that we already did that with Oakland. Actually, it was a big learning curve over there.
Lilliana Robinson: But yeah, we decided to put this in pre program prep and make it a whole day. So Neil was like, forget the workshop. We're making a project management day, because it's that important for everyone to have good hygiene before they even start the program. So we made this workshop. This 1st part, like Neil said, will be more like teaching you some principles. My favorite part is part 4 of the run of show, which was Neil's background on project management. It's very interesting to see the evolution of
Lilliana Robinson: how we got to the systems and processes that like we all use in our team today, and we'll show you those. And then in the afternoon it's going to be more interactive. And you guys all get to work together, and Neil will get to critique you and give you some feedback. So it's super helpful. But that's kind of the background. There.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. And for awareness, I think Liliana is is cutting out in about 45 min. Maybe a little sooner than that, so she'll be back in the afternoon.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we'll we'll have her back with us then.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So alright, so defining success. I I have a selfish version of this. And then I, we have what we think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is success potentially for you. All. My selfish version is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I not only want to be known as running programs where founders know their customers better than anyone else. I would also love to be known to have the program where the founders are just
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the best at getting stuff done
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like there's just there's just like this reliable reputation, culturally, that they know going through any program of our San Francisco and formerly Chicago the founders are just on the ball, you know. They don't. They don't drop anything. They get stuff done. They over communicate and they're very thorough with what they are able to accomplish and do both within their team and also with investors and others. So that is my like personal goal. And if some of you all feel like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you've got a system dialed in, I want to learn from you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I want to learn all of your techniques, and how you manage your your life and your work, and all that. I want you to help each other. And then also, like, I hope that there's something new that you can. You can derive from this. So you'll see what we're we're kind of doing here with these 3 buckets. So the situation for success here is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: answering the questions, what's my team up to?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's the most important thing I need to do today? And what's falling through the cracks? You all might know that off the top of your head you might have this written down somewhere, whether you do or you don't, you will, by the end of this day
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the motivation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think Lena did a good job of summarizing this already, but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: everybody struggled through this, and I want to get familiar with how you all work and how you think about work. So we can better support you. Going into the program itself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Desired outcome is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you all have a better understanding of how you can create and improve your project and task management systems to get more done with your team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think they picked up what we did there, those 3
Neal Sáles-Griffin: little formula.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: all right. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: projects are everywhere. Goals broken down into actionable chunks
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at this stage of your business. Most of you are essentially project managers. So we talk about Ceos. It's always funny when you like, you start a startup. And then you put the title, CEO on Linkedin, because you're like one person, 2 people, 3 people. You're the CEO of a business. It's like, what does this even mean? That being said. It's still legitimate, because you do have to make some important decisions, and it's difficult. But, as you know, this changes a lot over time, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as you scale. Let's just say you get over to a million in revenue.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Dave knows a thing or 2 about that, or you have over 10 people working for you. Some of you know about how that works.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This whole notion of project management changes a lot in company management and leading it and running it. So I'm just curious. For anyone just really quickly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How do you think about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what project management even means like, what does that mean to you?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anyone can unmute.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): I can go to me it means scope budget and timeline.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Management of this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: scope, budget and timeline. So so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the idea is that for a given project these are the actions you're taking to kind of give a structure.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Yeah, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I I couldn't agree more. Dominique.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, I I agree, I think building on that for for me, project management is really making sure that everyone in the team is aware of what the not only what the key tasks are, but really the North Star. So everybody's working together in sync, so we can really get the best, not only out of the task, but out of the team, too.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: It's I guess, how I look at budget management.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Said Morgan.
Morgan Stanton: Like Dominique was more eloquent, and saying, What about what I would project? Management, I see, is just like everything I have to get done to make sure that goal is executed by that end. Date like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 100%. I I mean you, said Tommy, was more eloquent. But like I like, I like that version, too.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That was that was very palatable. So I appreciate that morning. Simple is often excellent. And and the way that it's defined in like traditional outlets is process creating structure for projects which you all included all the details in color for so without that structure, I think there's a lot of vulnerabilities that a lot of founders face with their businesses, and you can get away with those vulnerabilities early on, because no one's scrutinizing it right? You can have scattered stuff everywhere, and it's no big deal, because you're the only one that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like holding yourself accountable, even when you have a board of directors, it's not like they're trying to look at your to do list, and how you manage your company. They're kind of trusting that you'll figure that out, and you have that going but just think about how much time you waste when you don't have that structure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How many meetings you're having that are standing meetings that you sit around and go. What else we have to do? Oh, I don't know. And then you try to fill in the time. You! You have to do this in multiple places without a lot of structure or clarity on what exactly needs to get done today. And then a lot of other messy systems like email threads. And I, I'm
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm a vocal critic of notion because I think it's a junk drawer for a lot of tech entrepreneurs. But you know, that's just my hot. Take so I'll leave that where it is. But I like to say, project managers like cooking with a recipe. It's not a guarantee for success. But you have a much better shot at making an awesome meal.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so not too different than the job stuff we've talked about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So here are a few principles is no 2 projects are alike. So each of you are going to have your own flavor and structure and need and tool that you even use for it. So, like Liliana said, I apologize in advance. I am a base camp aficionado, so I'm literally force feeding you with that tool for the next 3 months, but I think you should use whatever system floats your boat, and I have no strong opinion about what which one is the best
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but just figure out what is best for you, and this is a part of the art. For your for you know your your journey now as a founder. And then here are some principles that I think are universal.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so.
Lilliana Robinson: You know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Go ahead, Lily. I'm sorry.
Lilliana Robinson: We go into the principles. Something that people have asked in the we're in this workshop before is like we'll show certain functionalities in base camp. And people think that that is required to implement these principles.
Lilliana Robinson: And it's not so if you need help trying to like, be creative and figure out how you can implement some of these same principles of project management into whatever tool your company uses, we can definitely help you with that. So just reiterating what Neil is saying like, we're using one thing to teach you. But all of these are more than applicable to any sort of system you want to do, even down to pen and paper.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Paper your notes app on your computer or phone, like, like, everything we're talking about can be implemented in any of these tools. So just keep that in mind it. It's amazing how many times I have to remind people of that, because then I'll start talking, and then they'll go. Yeah, but we don't have base camp, or we use this. And I'm like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I thought I told you that it has nothing to do with the tool. So I'll remind someone, I'm sure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So 1st off, we need to define goals and objectives for the project, whatever that project is. And I guess something about projects.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I like to give projects some sort of finite
Neal Sáles-Griffin: completion parameter. I think Morgan alluded to this in her description, but the notion here is that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I I'm not a big fan of like infinite lists and infinite objects. So if you have a project and you, it's just called your company name.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and all of a sudden you just drop work in there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's gonna live forever, and I like to get things done. So when I'm going to do anything. I give it a time bound kind of label.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then I execute it. And when that's done I move on and instantiate something new.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think goals and objectives for the project could mean a lot of things for you. But just be mindful that you don't want an infinite bucket of things. You want to have things that you can just complete.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you you know what the issues are here. So I just kind of repeated this point already. But your goals are going to help you activate effort within your team because a lot of the things that I deal with in program or founders that reach out to me and go, hey? I'm having an issue with my co-founder because I don't think that we're sharing the same workload
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like I feel like I'm doing more than them, or, you know, like there's like all these weird feelings of people not being held accountable or not knowing how to set the right expectations. So, having everything kind of laid out objectively on, who gets what done by when saves you a lot of the hassle and confusion, especially when tech stars interests afraid and ask you all to do even more work. It's unclear how much people are getting done in any given day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think it's really important to lay that out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and also that you have alignment. So making sure that you've defined what success is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as far as on budget, on time and on spec.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It also needs to be relevant to the progress of the company. Needs a lot of the times. People find really clever ways to come up with things to do, to be busy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But it's not necessarily leading towards something that would be an important business outcome.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So ensuring that you take this seriously is going to help you remove a lot of potential regret down the road when you look back at 3 months from now, and you go. Well, what did we even get done?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then the the notion of fulfilling a business need also needs to be clearly defined. I think your goal setting packets are helping us with that which Chloe is going to work with you to review, but stating the obvious there
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then who's going to do the work sometimes? Not everybody on your team should be working on every project, and that's probably the case for a lot of you right? So figuring out who is best to allocate to what job is another important principle and factor here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So and this is also a great way to activate people
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who are
Neal Sáles-Griffin: potential members of your team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So a lot of folks end up bringing on contractors. And I tend to advise people before you hire someone, pay them to work on a project with you for a week or 2, or even longer a month to understand what it's actually like to work with them. So this is a great like consideration there. Where I think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I know that there's like some debate or controversy about like when it comes to level playing field meritocracy and inclusion with hiring. But there has been no better advice that I've received and given to founders than to pay people to do a project before you hire them full on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I like. There's nothing short of of learning what it's like to actually work with someone compared to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: acing an interview and presenting a lot of fancy work that's done to date. Not the same dynamic as working with you directly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana.
Lilliana Robinson: I was gonna say that the problem of having random work being ha! Like happening during your company that isn't directly aligned with the company goal is usually a ramification of the leader. Probably the CEO here or in our team. Me cause I'm in charge of project management, not laying out the work for the employees well enough. So that's not usually, I think.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: A lot of.
Lilliana Robinson: People think that when people are just doing frivolous work, it's a
Lilliana Robinson: a reflection on the employee, and that maybe they're not valuable, or they're not bringing a lot to the team. But I think this workshop should help you look inward where it's usually a problem from the top, and like not scoping out the work correctly, not basing it in your goals and then letting it trickle down. So kind of think in terms of that. If that's something that you're seeing in any of your team members.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's such a great point I I can't reiterate what she just said enough, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a lot of the times I do deal with some founders who will reach out during program and outside of it, and they'll talk about their frustrations with their team. My team isn't getting enough done, or I'm having these issues with my team. And I'm like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, well, you're the CEO. What are you doing? You know. How are you setting your team up for success. So I asked myself the same question, every CEO goes through this journey where you have frustrations with the things around you. But then you realize like, wait a second. The bucks off for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You hire these people. You chose to build this business with these people. You're laying out the work. You're setting the direction. You kind of have that dominion to make those calls and you're also deputizing others on your team. Your co-founders to do the same thing within their their subgroups.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So how accountable are you holding yourself to whether you've done an effective job of setting the workout properly for them to get done. So it always starts from the top.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is where team roles and responsibilities come in right? So making sure that leaders are assigning people based on what they're great at.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But what's awkward with the startup
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is you're gonna inevitably face the moment where they go. Well, that's not a part of my job description. And you're like, well, we're a startup. Everyone has like 10 jobs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's why we have equity. So you have to clearly define what is exactly someone's job to do, and where there's room for interpretation and customization and adaptability.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So, in my view, the 1st 5 to 10 people on your team should all be Renaissance oriented.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: meaning they are up for anything like let's get it done if we, if I'm not that good at it. But it needs to happen, and no one else is around. Let's find a way
Neal Sáles-Griffin: now. I shouldn't, I should say, only with mission like things that aren't too sensitive like. I don't want somebody
Neal Sáles-Griffin: trying to, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Submit some code, and they don't know how to code like that would be a nightmare. But you know what I mean. Don't take me literally, but you know, use your best judgment for what that even means.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then I guess another caution about building consensus here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because while I am talking about like bringing people in and letting the group kind of decide and set scope and structure, it's empowering to the team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but it could also be a risk.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Can anyone think of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: why, I would caution you about the group centered approach
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to forming responsibilities with a team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what might be the the negative factor there, or the risk
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause? It feels good to build consensus and get everyone on board and on the same page. But yeah, Monica, I would say.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): I'm sorry.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're George!
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Oh, oh, no! No! Sorry!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Monica, and then George.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Okay, okay, I I was just gonna say, sometimes decisions may never get made.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, analysis, paralysis, as they say.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Yeah, basically yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 100%. And and that that is that is where like, it's funny, because, like, I keep referring to CEO, and I will do that a lot throughout the program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let me tell you that I know that there are not all Ceos in this room.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and congratulations because I don't even like that job. That much like I've been to CEO a few times is hard. It is hard. You go to sleep at night with more on your mind than most most humans should. And when it comes down to like the tough calls and the disagreements, that's when, like, you're the deciding factor, and sometimes not. Everyone's going to be happy about what you do or what you say. And also you're the one truly and ultimately held accountable
Neal Sáles-Griffin: by your investors by your board and by outsiders. They're gonna look at you 1st and foremost, because at the end of the day it's it is on you to make these decisions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I would just implore any co-founders to like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Take advantage of the fact that you may not have that same burden, and therefore you might be able to think and move differently than your co-founder. In some respects
Neal Sáles-Griffin: norms for working together. So maybe all of you all have a perfect working dynamic with your team. Maybe you think there's work that needs to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Either you know the answer to these questions, or maybe you want to revisit answering these questions together as a group.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how are we working together?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How often should we meet?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How are we making decisions? And what are we going to use to communicate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now, again, you probably have answers to all of these revisiting them now is a great opportunity to reset. If you feel like there's areas for growth or improvement in any of these categories.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But going into techsars, I think it's really important as a team that you spell out your specifics for working together. From the jump.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we've had teams do this where they set a new standard with their their folks, and then they're all of a sudden
Neal Sáles-Griffin: able to run in a way that they never have before, and get more done than they ever had before. So a lot of the people say, like I get more done in tech stars in 3 months than I would have in one or 2 years.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or at least, that's how it's felt to some of them when they take this seriously and do it right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright project roadmaps you've heard of this. So I'm gonna kind of move fast relevant deliverables. Timeline. Who's responsible? There's different ways to lay that out. There's a really cool way in base camp to do that. Now that's a new feature. But it's essentially a shared plan that outlines vision and priorities and steps you need to take to get there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now, this is where it's going to get interesting so weekly for tech stars we have this Monday session that you have with your eirs and us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're every Monday starting after Mentor madness. So I think it's 5 weeks in. If I have that right, Liliana.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we'll have these Kpi meetings, and I think they're like 90 min long.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they used to be with the whole class. But now we've broken them up into subgroups, where for the 1st 10 to 15 min we all meet as a group, and we review everyone's kpis and goals, and how everyone's performing. But then afterwards
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you break off into subgroups with your eirs, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it gets scrutinous like when you take a magnifying glass, and we talk about how things are going with your business, what's going on, and you all help each other. But then also your eirs and and myself. Along with our team. We really get into the weeds with each and every one of you, with your stated goals and your reflected progress in your metrics.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm sure you've got kpis. You had to submit some for us both for the lean canvas and for the techsar's application. But here's some examples of ones just as a refresher.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How much time are you spending on things
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so very simple? One? But when I think about the cost of getting things done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you take a 2 week project and people will say crazy things, especially with metrics like, Oh, well, our customer acquisition cost is 0.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I love it when founders say that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because it's hilarious, because 2 weeks of your time is worth nothing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So think about how you value your time in addition to all the other inputs for your business, because all of those things are going to go into your financial model
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and be reflected there. All these other ones, I think you've are either familiar with or can look up. Outside of this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: communication effectively is with key stakeholders with us, with other investors, if you have them. With outside members, and obviously in those those messages. But having a ledger of all of the things that you've been doing. It makes it easy, whereas I think founders struggle a lot to provide updates when they have so much scattered information. They're busy and they're overwhelmed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you're properly managing your work, putting together an investor update should be merely
Neal Sáles-Griffin: an exercise in referencing work that you've already documented, completing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So like I, I and I deal with this so much where founders are
Neal Sáles-Griffin: falling behind on sending out their updates, especially when they're not fundraising.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's the other. Tell
Neal Sáles-Griffin: his founders
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they'll send out investor updates out of nowhere
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, Oh, wow! I haven't heard from you in like 4 months. What's going on? Oh, well, we're gonna kick off a race soon. Okay, good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But the problem is that investors will look at your data room.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They'll look at your investor updates, because you'll have a whole log of all of your investor updates, and they'll see gaps.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: large gaps sometimes, because if you're only showing up when you want something as opposed to being consistent about how you're reporting and sharing your progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the difference between founders who are on the ball versus ones who are not so much
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. I'm gonna keep going here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Communication, effective communication
Neal Sáles-Griffin: adapting as you go. So just another point on that halfway through. If something's not working out. If things if you start to fall into old habits or you realize things, don't kind of, you know. Work your way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: be sure to revisit what you're doing, and maybe even simplify it or strip things away.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's see, I'm gonna skip this just more words.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: benefits of project management. I'm sure you'll agree with this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It keeps your team members happy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so it gives everybody on the team a clear understanding of what needs to get done and what success looks like, and how they're going to be evaluated. So this may not matter that much to you now, because you all as a team, have full, complete trust, and you know each other. But think about when you need to hire your next 3, 4, 5 people.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What room do you want them to step into? You want them to step into like a really messy, dirty office where you're like? I'm sorry. I don't really know where this is, or oh, we gotta go look for this, or let me clean this up real quick, or you want them to step in to go out. They I'm really proud to be on this team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I feel like I'm on, you know. I'm in the right place, and I already belong here
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for those of you that are doing. B, 2 BI think you might refer to your customers also as potentially clients.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So having effective project management and things organized helps you interact with your customers and your clients really well as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because founders who don't quite have their stuff together are missing deadlines
Neal Sáles-Griffin: can't demonstrate that they have robustness in both, how they communicate and how they operate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That can be a huge negative signal
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to a potential customer client, and you may not even find out that that was something that deterred them from doing business with you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It'll be too late.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and maybe they it's a subconscious reaction rather than an overt.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they'd never, never tell you. And then you end up losing business. I've I've I've known and heard of examples like this same thing with investors. I've heard Vcs talk about founders who they feel like either weren't effective communicators
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or they didn't believe
Neal Sáles-Griffin: were organized enough to get the work done properly, even if they met well, or they were really technical or capable, or was a great idea if they didn't believe in the founder of the team, and how they work, that changes things entirely. Still.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I know from experience, interviewing hundreds or maybe thousands at this point of founders.
Lilliana Robinson: it shows so even if we never talk about project management.
Lilliana Robinson: and we only ask you about your numbers and your your customers and your product.
Lilliana Robinson: It shows in everything that you do, whether you're organized in this way or not. It shows in the way that you send the follow up email. It shows in the way that you talk about your roadmap. It shows in every single way.
Lilliana Robinson: So when he was talking about is like it's never explicit where it's not like someone messed up or dropped the ball or lost a task. It's just a way of working that is very palpable when a founder is working like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Agreed. Yeah, you can tell. And then those are the ones that you get excited about. And you get this immediate instinct of wanting to reinvest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm like, oh, I wish I could double down.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, on this founder right now, because you can tell that they're off to the races in a way that is leagues beyond, I think how most people operate, and another preaching moment for me. I guess now that I'm thinking about it is like, I think. Unfortunately, a lot of founders treat startups like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: either like careers or like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know. I think.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Amanda Leonard actually said it best Liliana, she called them startup tourists.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's people who are kind of like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: floating in this area, because the idea of being a founder is either cool or enticing or interesting, but when it comes down to like the hard part which is the real work of it's not pretty, it's not sexy, it's not always fun, but you gotta get it done regardless
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, who's actually gonna show up to the rodeo.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And that's kind of where stuff like this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: can't be taken for granted, and if you take it seriously, and you realize, like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're already setting yourself behind. If you don't have all of these like baseline aspects dialed in. How are you going to get the hard part done when it's time for you to innovate?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So focus is key and making sure that the best ideas rise to the top amongst your team? And it helps you identify ideas that are valuable because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: everything isn't just going to come from one person.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you should be bringing people on whose perspectives and opinions you value at every step.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: making sure that you're activating all of the brilliance on your team, and as you onboard new people
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright few methodologies.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm sure you all have heard of these waterfall, agile scrum.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: critical path, lean
Neal Sáles-Griffin: shape up. That's my favorite. But does anyone like familiar, or anyone here familiar with any of these techniques or methodologies? Anyone's not listed here that you know. Well, that you'd like to share.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm curious.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Google sprints are quite good.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: I mean, that's that's lame kind of but.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's it called.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: The Google Sprint room like Google Sprint.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, Google sprints. Yeah. So that's that's he's a friend of mine. His name.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Really.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's his name? I know him. He's from Google. He wrote it. We hung out in Chicago, Ryan.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's not Ryan.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: anyway. He he looks like my other friend Ryan Singer. He's a really tall guy. He's cool. Yeah. Google sprints is great. I'm I'm a big fan of that. But that's Google. Sprints is intense, though I find it hard
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for one week
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sprints sometimes, but for techsars it's perfect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So for techsar is perfect. But outside of techsar, I think a 1 week sprint depending on your capacity to execute could be really challenging, whereas, like my tried and true method, here out of these are shape up, which I'll do a workshop on later in the program in month. 2. I'll like, Okay, midterm madness. You have a new strategy. Some of you have pivoted.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now let's talk about how to actually build a product. Better?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'll talk about that. But any others, anybody else with the project management
Neal Sáles-Griffin: experience with any of these buckets or
Neal Sáles-Griffin: ways of the force.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: come on, I know there's some programmers in here, Morgan.
Morgan Stanton: We used to do scrum at my previous job. I wasn't the biggest fan, but we we did it pretty often.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Tell me why you weren't the biggest fan, because I I can relate. But I I want to know your your take.
Morgan Stanton: It was incredibly timed. Biology has its own, you know. It's a little bit slower than you know, not a tech sprint or something. But we were meeting all the time every day, and so every morning we would be these discussions, and there wasn't much to be said. There wasn't huge changes between 24 h and.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Morgan Stanton: Hours. So probably just like a, you know. Maybe once a week would probably have been good enough. But we were. We were trying to fill time. Basically, it was a meeting that wasn't great for the company.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 100%. Oh, man it! Whenever I feel like time is being wasted, I get real
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like anxious cause that because all you have to do is calculate, how much time are we spending like everybody in this room? Let's just say, like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: everybody here, like having a group meeting is so expensive to a company.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? Especially if you're, you know, hopefully down the road. All of you are probably in the, you know, 6 figure range. Let's just say salary wise.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: paying everybody here $100,000 a year for us to be on a call for 2 h right? Learning from me. That's expensive.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I have to make sure it's worth it. That's why. Sometimes I'm like, all right, let me skip over this and just get to the point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I can relate heavy to that. So I was also asking any programmers here, anybody who uses agile or come on. I I know somebody's doing some of this stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No.
Sezer: Yeah, we we use it all the time both with our like clients, with our other business, and also at snapshot reviews.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Good.
Sezer: I have mixed feelings to be honest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Tell me more cause you have a lot of experience with this. You've you've built a successful business already.
Sezer: I think it works great for a big corporation, especially if you have like written processes.
Sezer: And like the product, goals are very clear.
Sezer: You can see ahead of time like 2 sprints later. You have your backlog failed.
Sezer: I guess, in those kind of cases. Scrum works well.
Sezer: But for a startup. I doubt it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And and in your view, what has worked well for the startup.
Sezer: I think even complete chaos may work better than scrum, like just
Sezer: deciding things on the fly, and
Sezer: like giving decisions and changing directions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Too much structure can get in the way of progress, especially at the early stage. I I couldn't agree more. So that's also really important to be mindful of. There's a sweet spot I think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of not having. I guess you refer to it as complete chaos. I would like just like a little little bit of chaos, maybe a little bit of structure to just a little bit of both. Maybe. Now, now is the graduation period for some of you to go beyond your chaos. But I'm with you, that's good. So this brings me to the I guess the final chunk here challenges.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So, figuring out what to prioritize.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how do you decide
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where to put your time and resources? Anyone have any
Neal Sáles-Griffin: perspective here?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You have any rubric for prioritizing your work.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: You mean like rice schools, that kind of thing like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You wanna explain what that means. I know what you're talking about, but.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: So are we like I might get it wrong with reach impact, what's see? And then I always see, or C and E.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have to look up the acronym, too. Yeah, but that's good. Rice rice is a good.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Just like the region. Yeah, how impactful will this activity basically be
George Reed - CEO and Founder: to prioritize things just prioritizing prioritization frameworks. Right?
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Basically.
Florence Ettlin: I think, maybe also, what really moves the needle rather than a framework. But actually, just this will really move the needle for my business. So that's where I put my priorities on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's great. And and you know it's funny. I think, Julia, correct me if I'm wrong.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think there's a new feature in Base camp that's literally called move the needle.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I love that you use that phrase cause that's like actually built into the tool that I'll show you in a bit.
Nirat Attri: I think the one thing which is most valuable from time to time is direct customer impact
Nirat Attri: like. So that's where, like, I think, prioritization should always be.
Nirat Attri: what's the end customer?
Nirat Attri: And then everything else just flows down lower in priority. What the business objective is comes next, and then, of course, everything else about optimization, perhaps after that. So that's how I tend to bucket it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, customer impact makes sense. If only we, you know, had a framework that helped us understand customer impact that could help prepare us to have a better understanding of what that could be and how to measure. It'd be great.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, very good, very good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I did not plant that comment. That was just all from him.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool! So does the problem matter. And if so, how much?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Ask yourself that? And I'm sure you do intuitively, but giving you a little bit more structure for it. Do we have the right appetite for this? How much time are we willing to bet?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think we get this done in 2 weeks. It's usually double that right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I hear this when it when I hear founders talk about fundraising.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And they're like, Oh, yeah, I think I'm going to fundraise. Now, I'm like, Okay, cool. What's the plan? And like, yeah, I think in the next, like, 2 or 3 months, we want to close our own.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm like, Oh, okay, alright, that's interesting.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And what I always do by default. Whenever I hear a founder give me a timetable, for when they're going to fundraise.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I multiply it by 2,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause that's usually about on average. How often how long it takes for them to get it done. So, whatever time you give me for how long you think it's gonna take you to fundraise, I'll double it, and then I'll go. Okay. How do we get it done in that timeframe. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: just as a rule of thumb.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then also like, are we at the right time to prioritize this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: scope? Creep. What do y'all know about this?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What does scope creep mean to you?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Have you heard this phrase before? I'm sure you have some of you.
Nirat Attri: Typically when you plan for a project like you need to
Nirat Attri: make sure that the requirements just don't keep going up so you can meet the end result on time.
Nirat Attri: So typically we see it like, I mean, especially in the b 2 b sense, because customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes.
Nirat Attri: One, adding more requirements.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: More, more and more. Yes.
Nirat Attri: You need to sort of
Nirat Attri: put a limit to what is phase one phase, 2, phase 3. Typically, that's.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And how do you? Yeah, how do you design against that? That's what I was. Gonna ask, actually, from your experience like, what do you do to like, avoid scope, creep, especially in A, b 2 b context.
Nirat Attri: Like, it's all about like versioning like aligning on what version you want to get out first, st like, what becomes a v 0, v. 1 v. 2. A lot of alignment should be done on that explicitly.
Nirat Attri: Oh.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 100% I saw a couple of hands, George and Agent lunar team.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: It was basically similar to what Nerod was just saying. I would. I would also add that, like sometimes I find myself having to micromanage develop my developer team as well to make sure that they don't like get the wrong idea and start building in the wrong direction.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So yeah, when you say that, that's pretty big, because a development team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: tends to be very expensive, right? And if you don't set them in the right like kind of direction and parameters. Things can go off the rails pretty quickly. You'll have a lot of regret.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's really important. And there's the notion of micromanagement, which is often with a negative connotation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I would just say effective
Neal Sáles-Griffin: management.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right, which is probably the sweet spot
Neal Sáles-Griffin: agent lunar.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, I I mean, a lot of the points have already been mentioned. I think I'm smiling, because as a marketeer I'm I know there's a couple on in the cohorts as well. But scope creep is a big topic, especially when you're dealing with agencies, or if you bring your own digital marketing and set in in house and
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: looking at it from a different lens. I'm guilty of it myself, in the sense of. I'm working with a team member or somebody. A specialist, a freelancer. Because what often happens is, you'll see. Let's take a website, for example. You'll have
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: clear deliverables in place. And then, when you actually see it being developed, you think, Oh, it'd be really cool if we actually add this, or Oh, actually, designers, can you do this, and before you know it, you've added more and more and more, and the the creeps completely expanded. So I think it's more about thinking about. What's a nice to have versus.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Actually getting the job done that you set out to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I I am. I'm
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I I wish I should make I made this slide like red, you know, like just really bright, like, I'm trying to ring the alarm bells for you all. Because here's the thing you're coming into tech stars. You're about to meet some really smart people who are all gonna tell you exactly what you need to do to be successful. And your team, you're gonna look at each other. You're gonna go! Oh, we should do that. Oh, no, we should do this. And here oh, we gotta do that now. And all of a sudden the scope is gonna just go insane
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because you're going to want to listen to everybody who's smart and everything that they're saying that you need to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I'm here to tell you that I've got your back
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're gonna be so tempted to do so much.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but very often
Neal Sáles-Griffin: less is more
Neal Sáles-Griffin: aim small, Miss Small.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: give yourself the patience and grace to do one thing really well, as opposed to 4 or 5 things very poorly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So special. Call out for this moment because scope creep will happen
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for many of you, and you're going to have to support each other. And you're going to need to call me up to get support as well. There's no program I've ever run where I haven't had this issue with more than one founder and team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so cool, almost done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: let's see, that's the technical term I defined already. You know, it's you already know what it means. We talked about it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So limitations and ways to avoid scope creep is to get things in writing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Getting things in writing is super uncomfortable to habitualize, but when you do, it is one of the greatest gifts you can give yourself and your team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana, can speak on this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause. She joined my team, and I force fed her and everyone else that I've worked with to write their updates
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because I don't want to just get on calls. I don't want to have daily stand ups. I don't want to have Tetris going on in my calendar, where I have lots of meetings and check ins and this and that, whatever I am a programmer I like flow. I like uninterrupted time. I'm an introvert. I'll want to deal with people all the time. Let me just get my stuff done and do my job, and I will effectively write up exactly what's going on and how I'm thinking about it. And, by the way, sometimes, no, almost always.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: your thoughts are more refined when you give yourself time to think about what you want to say
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? If you take the time to actually write it out, it's usually much clearer, and you can say it in a much more effective way than you would if you just kinda on the fly decided to just
Neal Sáles-Griffin: talk it out somewhat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's always value in having meaningful discussions live with people, especially in crucial conversations, and where you're trying to discover and brainstorm.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or go over something that you've already reviewed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But it is a lazy
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Band-aid and catch all I think for a lot of people, especially at the early founder stage.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where you're not taking the time to properly lay out your thoughts and write them down, and what you have going on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And, Neil, I I can't remember if you were on your flight or not. But during the base camp training with these guys, I reiterated this point of how important it is to write things up and what the benefits are. And I would say we do it twofold because we write things up for our own team, but we also avoid having a bunch of stand ups for you guys. So
Lilliana Robinson: as soon as I started working here, Neil said. We're going to communicate asynchronously with the founders, and it has saved so much time for all of our founders that have been in program because other programs do a daily stand up where, like all the announcements and things that once we start program, you'll get via base camp, you'll see like a whole message poster announcement, probably every day those things that are thoughtfully written up that I take a lot of time, and
Lilliana Robinson: I take a lot of like pride in making it really nice. So that you guys can refer back to it. Those things are just verbally said in other programs. So we kind of like eat our own dog food and put it in writing for you guys, too. So not only are we saving time from stand ups for our own team. We're also doing it for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Absolutely. It can be really challenging, I think, when we have one offs with founders where we have a meeting about something or a conversation about something in a zoom call. And then all of a sudden, the people who weren't on the call
Neal Sáles-Griffin: miss out on that context.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So having things in writing is super important, especially as a follow up from a meeting, because the people who weren't in the room are still in the know of what's happening.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah, I just wanted to chime in really appreciate this vision of yours, and I can't help but like, just embrace it and bring in my experience. At byte night like ever since, I think February of this year we started like jotting down everything, including like meeting summaries. And you know, project overviews. And it was so beneficial to our business, because not only we got accountability of what we were doing, and we can like
Fabio Caironi: see ourselves grow, and, like, you know, have, like a tangible
Fabio Caironi: tangible impact of our of our actions. But also, thanks to you know. These task management software like AI, we could query all that information we can have.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Fabio Caironi: And and reproduce it. And yeah, oh, and, by the way, like all the taxers, application purchase was, I think, meant to be like also very written, and we really appreciate it, because that gave us the time to think about our business. And, and, as you said, like, just put it down in words in the best version possible way, way, better than you could like. Talk it out you know.
Fabio Caironi: All I need.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I I love that. And and Fabio, just as a quick follow up what inspired you and your team to adopt more documentation early on like this.
Fabio Caironi: It was primarily because we were bringing in more people. And it was basically impossible for me to just have one on one with everybody, and just a board. It like it was also.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Fabio Caironi: And I was like, Why don't we, like, you know, spend some time. It was definitely like some overhead, like, you know, additional time to like. Set it all up, and it needs maintenance. But the benefits that you reap are definitely definitely bigger than
Fabio Caironi: than anything.
Lilliana Robinson: I think that's a huge point, Fabio. The initial investment sometimes scares founders, especially when it's just just a solo founder or 2, because with just 2 as well like it, it doesn't seem like the benefits outweigh the costs of like taking the time to write all these things down like I could just shoot them a quick DM like it'll be really easy. They already get me like it's just easy to keep one person up to date. But the minute that you get a 3rd person, a 4th person, a 5th person.
Lilliana Robinson: the benefits immediately outweigh the cost, and you will wish that you had implemented this earlier. So I I do like to challenge when founders are like kind of hesitant on investing the time and effort to like set this up when it seems like overdoing it, or it seems like too much for like what you need right now, because it will very quickly be essential. So getting ahead of it is the best thing you can do while things are easy. Right now, when you're not scrambling, or have too many people that you need to keep up to date.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Agreed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. I'm going to get to these last few slides, Liliana, and then, if you have anything else that you wanted to share before you have to leave. I would love to get more of your thoughts before I go into my story. So just really quickly. A few more tools for avoiding scope, creep, saying the right appetite.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's usually a timeframe, and then sticking to it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And when I say, stick to it, that means
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you are being vicious.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: ferocious with how you're cutting scope to fit the deadline.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you don't let
Neal Sáles-Griffin: things just kind of go over time or bleed over you go. Wow! This is the commitment we made for the time we're giving this project. We have to make some compromises and sacrifices because we run out of time and capacity to do what we originally set out to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The gift of sticking to that parameter has leads to so much creativity.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They say constraints. Force, innovation
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is such a cool exercise to force yourself to fit the parameter that you originally set out to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and make whatever trade-offs or concessions required to do so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's a really really helpful tool and technique
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and explain the true costs. So understanding what is on at stake to lose if you put too much time into that as opposed to what you have next on the roadmap.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So understanding like I said, the the people costs like salary and otherwise factor that in to how you're budgeting the work that you're trying to get done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And you also need to know where to stop.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You gotta know when to call it, because sometimes you're trying to power something through and get it done because you feel like you promise it to someone, or you're you're gonna feel guilty if you end up having to call it or fail or ship something different. But you're gonna have to just have the discipline and the realization that nothing that you ship at this date needs to be perfect
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just keep this stuff in mind. And as you go through this, you will shift a lot of your point of view, and you'll develop your own recipe for this. And eventually you'll be coming back to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: our program helping the founders realize how you manage to scale your business, which we have a lot of founders doing in the coming weeks, because they all have different ways of doing it. Some of them use
Neal Sáles-Griffin: notion, which, you know it's whatever it's all good. I'll just keep talking my trash.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But yeah. So this is my personal start to it. I'll show you a few images. But, Liliana, before you head out anything else you wanted to add before we wrap.
Lilliana Robinson: No, I'm excited for you guys to see the second half of this where we show you kind of how we work. If anyone has questions about like how our team does things. I can answer them in part 2. So I just have to head to the doctor, so I'll see you guys in like a couple of hours
Lilliana Robinson: cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, one flag for Liliana is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We over the past year had the insurmountable task of moving out to California
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to run additional programs. And that threw a wrench in all of our project manager systems. So the screenshots you're going to see are actually from before then and then. Now, it's like a whole complex web of additional
Neal Sáles-Griffin: things that I'm not going to burden you with now. But maybe Liliana will do a demonstration when she comes back
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool. Alright. So I'm gonna keep rolling. Unless actually, you know what? Let me check in. Are there any questions before I give you my quick
Neal Sáles-Griffin: personal journey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: questions, comments so far, is this bit helpful? We're like 1 h in. So I want to make sure this is keeping your attention.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Super super helpful. Happy to kick that off. Yeah, really, it's given given us the kick we need to to not make excuses and think, okay, there's only a few of us now. But actually, let's get this done and ready for when the team grows. So really appreciate it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, you know how like, when you're when you're on your computer. And it's like running kind of slow. And you're not sure why you just reset it right? You just restart the computer like, I want this to be that for you all for project management. If you need it, you know. Just restart the computer still the same stuff in there. But you're just rebooting it, and whatever you needed to clear got cleared up. And you're just like, all right, we're gonna do this the right way this time.
Lilliana Robinson: And what's really nice is, you can do that as many times as you need like. I would say, Neil, and I've had like resets for project management, probably like 8 times in 2024 alone, like every time it just gets a little haywire you just like have a reset, and that looks different every time. Sometimes, like we have a zoom call for a while and we reset it. Sometimes I just go in. And I'm like, all right. We're overhauling this so like it, you do kind of have to like Yank the wheel back and like, keep it driving straight, cause it'll like
Lilliana Robinson: start veering off, and you just pull it back. So that should be like something that you get used to, because I've learned that that's just normal. It just happens, and so keeping that good hygiene and being used to doing these resets is really good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, my litmus test is always, can I
Neal Sáles-Griffin: click a button and see exactly what I need to get done today? Comprehensively?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And if I can't, and if I don't have my work scoped out properly like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I know that I need to do some adjustments until I'm back at that. That's like my baseline
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is. Is my work properly scoped out thoroughly for the day, where I have nothing to add or change, and I know what's on the deck for the rest of the week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I'll show you what that looks like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in a second. So like, I said, you're gonna hear my founder story later. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I am proud to say that I was one of the early
Neal Sáles-Griffin: access users of Google Docs when it came out in 2,006. This is what it looked like way back in the day. And has anyone ever had one of those? You know that device, the palm trio.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You might know that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No, I'm so old.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this was like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the smartphone before the smartphone. Okay, it's called a palm pilot.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I was 18 years old I had my 1st company. We raised $250,000. I didn't even know what I was doing right. I was just this kid from Chicago.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I figured out how to get
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like spreadsheets into my palm trio. I remember this is like it was like a whole effort. It took me a whole day like, figure it out. But I was doing some weird technical stuff, and like I was able to like, manage like my Google spreadsheets and my excel spreadsheets and all my like Crm stuff for the sale I was doing like sales for this company that I had started.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah, I also had that bluetooth
Neal Sáles-Griffin: thing in my ear. I just looked ridiculous driving around my dad's like 1986 station wagon
Neal Sáles-Griffin: trying to do like sales and doctors offices. It was pretty wild. So that's how I started off a project manager.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then I graduated to yeah, when I graduated university, I started my coding school, which ended up being called the Starter League. This is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the original base camp
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and base camp classic, and then the tabs at the top.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There was a new base camp. There's base Camp 2 base camp 3, and we're now on Base Camp 4. It's been like 20 years.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then there's another app called High Rise, another app called Backpack, and then Campfire. So all these were different apps and tools that this company had that I was managing, and then eventually all consolidated into one platform which you we now use today. But I also use that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, after this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or actually during I don't know when. But I used another app called huddle
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this was another like project manager tool. Again, like I'm dating myself with these different things, and then some of you might be familiar with this one. You might know what this one is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which one? What's this?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's on the tip of Dominique's tongue.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Come on unmute. I want to hear you think about it out loud. Let's do it. Let's do it.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I couldn't.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Old Jira, is it.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Someone go to this Jira? No.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a good guess.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: close, but no cigar.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: What is it? I know what it is.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Trello.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Nope.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's called Pivotal Tracker.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, there we go. So so you're familiar with that. Somebody know pivotal tracker? No, so this is one of the originals. This is one of the ogs for this style for that Kanban style formatting. I really like pivotal tracker because of. And and you all have to tell me whether the other tools do this or not. But what was baked in was estimating work and velocity.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and doing that in a way that allowed me to really quantify my productivity in a way I'd never had before.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I became obsessed with like quantifying my productivity like any given day. And there was another tool. I used to finally do that and that tool
Neal Sáles-Griffin: was called the Pomodoro technique.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You guys familiar with this, I think this is persisted.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this came out in like mid 2 thousands, like 2,008, 2,009, I think around then, is when I 1st heard about this technique for those of you who don't know what it is. Does someone want to explain it? Actually, since I'm tired of hearing my own voice.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anybody know what the Pomodero technique is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you want to do it.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Isn't it like a chunking thing where you set a timer? And you'd like do 15 min.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: But all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 25.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: And then you take a bell. Sorry? Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So a Phd, a. Phd wrote this, actually, I think they were getting their Phd, and they developed this technique
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to be successful in acquiring their Phd. And then they rolled it out as basically a resource and a framework over time. But it's a technique that I still use to this day, like I have a little timer right here that I use, and I work in. There it is. You can see it now 25 min. So I work in 25 min increments with 5 min breaks and sets of 4, and then I take a 30 min break.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I do that multiple times per day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and in those 25 min
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they are undistractable, meaning. I turn off notifications. I don't take calls. I don't let people interrupt me. I'm getting something done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm usually throwing on some just really dope music that I want to listen to. And I'm just focusing on a job or a task, and I scope all of my work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so that within 25 min is my estimate
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for how I'm going to get that work done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when I say I scope my work in 25 min. That means like, I'm not going to come up with a task that takes 5 min. I'm gonna bundle a set of tasks that could take up to 25 min if I get it done earlier. Great! But I am budgeting that. I think I want to dial it in. So I know how much work I can get done in a 25 min increment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's a very technical.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: personally micromanaging style to live. But it's the only way that I stay sane.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I couldn't recommend this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: approach and technique more for anybody who feels like they struggle with focus and productivity for your individual work any given day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It has been probably one of the greatest things that's ever happened.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: couldn't recommend it more so much so I even worked with a friend to build an app some time ago. This is many years ago. Where on top of Base camp. We built something called dayboard, which was like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do I have to do today?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Like app.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And what's really cool is basecamp ended up like implementing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a version of this into their like app itself, like there is a today day board that they now have in there. But back then, when they had their open Api.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: me and a buddy
Neal Sáles-Griffin: just decided to like roll this, this little app and a bunch of people use it, and it was really helpful and useful for them at the time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But all this being said, there's also just like the standard tools, right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Email.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Google Docs
Neal Sáles-Griffin: base camp
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for me it was huddle and pivotal tracker. Base camp, 2. Base camp, 3. Base camp 4.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But now my question is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what are your tools?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do you all like to use. I've been talking at you for an hour.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's let's hear what you all love.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Caesar.
Sezer: Is there a reason why you're you're not
Sezer: referring to Slack or Girado.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You mean this or this.
Sezer: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Or this or this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah, for this or this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Come on, man.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm cooking with gas over here. I'm ready for anything. I just wanted to get to know you first.st
Sezer: Yeah, I've.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's all there. It's all the same.
Sezer: Yeah, 4 years in every, almost every project
Sezer: we have been, every client slack. And Jira was the tools that they were using.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you won 2 punch.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: Product. That we're looking to integrate like we only just did like Slack and Jira. And we were like.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: we'll deal with everything else later.
Sezer: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I I think slack. And Jira is like probably
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Slack and Jira, or slack, and whatever tool, slack, and Asana, slack and notion slack, and whatever that seems to be the baseline now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for me, I'm
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I. The reason I chose base camp was purely because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's no end.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's just base camp.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't need another thing on top of it. I can just use that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that was the integration that that made a difference for me. But like, I think.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: tried and true, like slack, plus
Neal Sáles-Griffin: whatever project management seems to work a lot for a lot of really good teams. Tech stars overall uses slack, and Asana, that's like tech stars as a company, and how they they work! I don't do it so, but that's just how they like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I saw some hands up.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Oh, so I have been using for the past 20 years, Microsoft notes app and it's been working. And then for software development, we use Jira, but my master list is Microsoft notes, and I've used it in my career. I used it for the startup like I don't know. It's just simple, and it's always on the desktop.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You say, Microsoft? Notes like that's not the same as onenote. Right? There's a 2.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): No, not I don't even need to go into onenote. It's the very basic like notes. App. That's been in it forever.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, got it?
Nirat Attri: I think for us, I think confluence also flows under the radar a bit, because, especially when it comes to documentation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Confluence. Is that what you said.
Nirat Attri: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, yeah, I've heard really good things about that.
Nirat Attri: Especially because, like, so of course, we're in Med tech. So that's also highly regulated. So I feel like regulators also like, have some really clean documentation. So
Nirat Attri: I think one thing to highlight here is like notion has problems with data encryption. So it isn't encrypted at rest. There is some problem with that.
Nirat Attri: And at that's why I was really enjoying it, bashing on notion, because there was.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Complain.
Nirat Attri: Thing that we were discussing that. Oh, can we use notion for a lot of these like of this FDA documentation that we were doing at that time.
Nirat Attri: And you're like, Okay, that can't work.
Nirat Attri: So yeah, just wanted.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think I need a separate. I need a separate group just to like, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: rag on notion. I I just I could use that just as a little small group exercise or something.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I I think I'm talking so much trash about it, because, like all the other textile programs, use it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Crap.
Nirat Attri: And I think I would also want to like highlight teams is doing like a great job, because they also, like what Microsoft has done, is build a.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's up? Teams.
Nirat Attri: Listen.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Nirat Attri: So they've done like build a good ecosystem like around the internal app. So like, I think it's a
Nirat Attri: you know the way all the Microsoft apps integrate directly into teams that have also done like a great job there. So it's kind of like a base camp competitor in that sense like the way it combines
Nirat Attri: communication. Just also wanted to highlight that if people haven't used it yet, I would also recommend doing teams once.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for sure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right. Agent, lunar, how are we doing it?
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Hey? So comment from both of us. So I think, yeah, we're we're big fans of teams as well. But what we're quickly realizing is that across the pond it's it doesn't seem to be
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: yeah, as favored. So we are like strongly considering changing. But I think teams has has been really helpful in terms of having everything in one place we're able to integrate confluence and Jira slack whatever anyone's using. It has a nice integration. But we are.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: We are open to trying base camp.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know. Teams sounds really cool.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Teams. It's I mean to being very honest with everyone. This was what I used at Ubs. It's very good for enterprise. So at 1st we thought, is this really the right tool to use for a startup? But in the same principle, as you know, no matter how small the team is, you should still get organized right? So that's where teams has been awesome. But you had a
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: yeah. The other one we've been using a lot of is loom, which has been really handy for managing different teams in different time zones and just being able to yeah, save a meeting and just shoot them a quick note more at the end of the day, so that when they come online that they can kind of watch it in their own, their own time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So loom, meaning the video
Neal Sáles-Griffin: overlay.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: That's it. Yeah, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I have a funny story about Loom so Shahid Khan, the the founder of Loom.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I know that kid, and I say that kid because he was just like this young guy hanging out in Chicago
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with us like he was like an intern and like lurking. And he was like at all the events and everything. And I was like, Oh, he's he's ambitious, he's a cool kid. And then he ended up selling this company for almost a billion dollars. Last year.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Oh, wow!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I was like, Oh, my God! I didn't learn from this guy, so I hit him up. You know we we touch base. I'm excited to, you know, re-engage him. But that's just such a funny thing that you can go from.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know nothing to something like that, and just do a phenomenal job. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: looms a Homie
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Morgan.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: He's funny.
Morgan Stanton: Right now, because we've been smaller. We've just been using Google sheets like the table views before. And I think I'd love to get anyone else's feedback on other project management tools. We're looking on onboarding for more people. We think we might need something a little bit better, and getting used to base camp. I wasn't familiar with it before, and you're talking about your own personal time. I'm definitely a pen and paper person. I don't even see.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, it.
Morgan Stanton: Bullet points like a crazy person. But it just helps me organize my time during the day. And then the other day these notes get kind of tossed, and I start again the next day, but it works.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: well, Morgan, I have to ask the room. Does anyone else have a similar situation that we can't see right now? Okay, Talitha has one right?
Talitha Abraham: Oh, yes, I'm exactly like Morgan. I'm so old fashioned. I love like writing notes every single day on, like my little planner, and I think the team knows that very well. I'm like, so I'm a Virgo. So I love being organized.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We thought.
Talitha Abraham: Such a thrill. So, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, alright, very cool. The only the only condition I have. There is a lot of the times, the work that we write down.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's important to make sure that other people have awareness of what the work is. Still right, so you may have to find a way to either, duplicate it or translate it digitally. So others are aware of what you have going on. If you're not working in the same room.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But the only other reason I don't take physical notes all the time myself is I just don't like my handwriting. I don't like looking at it. It's look kind of ugly. So I'm like, yeah. But if you have very beautiful handwriting, I'm sure it's gonna be great.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah, same here. By the way, I think I lost like the ability to handwrite a a while ago.
Fabio Caironi: It's just like all typing on the keyboard. So for I I don't use like much stuff for personal management, but task management. But we use clickup so that's.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Fabio Caironi: And I think, like, you know, just like the process of going over all these staff enter software. Has been kind of a puzzle. And I ended up choosing Clickup honestly, just because I I love the CEO like he's super cool and like I always watch their wheels, and that. You know he's a
Fabio Caironi: yeah. His Linkedin is popping. And I I just like the whole concept about their company. And like they're very similar to notion or to Monday, so in the end, I mean, I love the look and feel of the platform. I love the company, you know. You know.
Fabio Caironi: if we, if we put all our knowledge on that platform, we're gonna end up on that. So in the end, you know, you might wanna just choose your provider also like
Fabio Caironi: depending on how much you love the company. So yeah, for me, it was like that, because honestly, they were all pretty much the same for me.
Fabio Caironi: and then for for personal tasks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, Fabio, sorry to interrupt you. I just want to clarify one thing you just said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or highlight it to everyone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What he just said about the CEO of Clickup and the company itself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My dream is for customers to say the same thing about each and every one of your companies.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That was so. That was so nice to hear. Like, I admire this business, not just because of what it does, because of who's doing it, and their approach to doing it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like that is such a a an endorsement for that business that's so powerful. I love that. And I couldn't.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah, I I couldn't agree more. So that was really well said.
Fabio Caironi: That's yeah. Great that you agree. I I honestly kind of
Fabio Caironi: prioritize functionality, of course. But in this case, since all these platforms. They look pretty much.
Fabio Caironi: They had the same functionality to me. I I prioritize the yeah, the look and feel and the the overall vibe I got from the company. So, yeah, that was a selection process. But then, like for task management, I want to see what? What's what are the opinions here. Has anybody used a motion with an M.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. The the AI one.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah, cause I I found it cool. But like, it's, it's not really helping me too much, because it basically schedules your your tasks and your day, and I felt like I was too much constrained by it. But I I was wondering anybody else has used it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Everyone's shaking their head. Okay, I've got one
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is a strange one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's only for me. I don't know anyone else who uses it. But I use an app, cause I as I I'll you'll see in a second. I have some slides to show you how I break down work within base camp. But it's a to do list which live anywhere like Monica said. It can live in your notes, app right? So it doesn't really matter where the to do list is, it's more about how you structure the to do so for me for structuring to dos. I use an app called goblin tools.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it's a really cool thing where, like, if you give it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's AI. So if you give it your task
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you go break this down into smaller tasks, it'll
Neal Sáles-Griffin: boop, boop, boop, boop, boop! Break it all down, and it'll give you like 10 or 15 discrete steps to get that task done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it saves me a few steps of thinking through that discretion myself. But yeah, that's that's my app of choice for the like, really insane, like magical to do list generator.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you like. So, for example, for your personal life, if you ever wanted to go like I need to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Do my laundry.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you put that task in there. It'll break down 10 steps to get your laundry done from like putting it in the washer, taking it out, putting in the dryer, and then like folding everything and then putting it away like I'm like, yes, speak to me.
Morgan Stanton: How accurate do you find it for your work? Does it ever give you extra tasks or things you find not useful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can. You can chisel it. But, like most of the time, I don't even have to change anything.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's creepy like I'm worried about the world.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Crazy
George Reed - CEO and Founder: the laundry thing. Yeah, everyone should just go try it. Yeah, it's like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, go to go to goblin tools and type in like, do my laundry today, and just see what it does.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Just.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They like, creep you out.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Dominique.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's my recommendation.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: As we speak, and love the branding. By the way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I need.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Like. That's all I needed to see like his face. I'm like, I like you. Yeah.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Less of a goblin right? Making you more organized.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll show you on my phone. I don't know if it's visible, but I have it right there.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I need this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: That's a marketing, even though I am a marketeer like I love him like. It's great.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've never even mentioned this tool ever to founders like this is this is the 1st time i've ever, even said that all out, which is hilarious. I'm just realizing. Thanks, thanks, Fabio, for pulling back more of the layers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Very good. Alright, so I'll make this fast. How we use base camp as a team. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: now you'll get a sense of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my treachery here, so I'll give you a bird's eye view first.st Liliana. Kind of already did this for you all when she did the base camp tutorial. But this is like a little bit of a time machine. So blast from the past.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We'll go back a year ago.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and this is what it looked like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I had my leadership.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I had all my Chicago program stuff's running. I had my eirs. I run a book club for founders who are interested
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where we read a bunch of really cool business books and get smarter together.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I had a really important one, is actually the portfolio and alumni support
Neal Sáles-Griffin: side on the bottom left there. That one is really robust now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So my portfolio and alumni support a base camp project. Has every single one of your like you, all my companies, and whenever you all ask me to do something.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or I decide it's important for one of us to do something for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: A. To do goes into your like. Your company. Name is a to do list, and it goes on that list and has a deadline and steps to take, and all that stuff. And that's how I organize following up and supporting you all. I'm also a university. I teach at the University, Northwestern. So I have a project for that or 2 projects for that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And what have you? So that's like the bird's eye view.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what I like about basecamp, is, it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: provides everything all at once for me. So for my leadership. This is now Liliana and myself
Neal Sáles-Griffin: before it also included Brad and Anthony, who are now running a program in Chicago. But it gives me, like, you know, same structure that you all know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then this is where it gets even more interesting. So I have like a 2 layer system for how I roll out work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I have a master like project for lead called leadership.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then I have sub projects within that master that have more detailed to do lists. So the to do is I have over here. If you see week, 9 week, 10 week 11, those are to do lists that I've now taught Liliana to structure
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that reflect the week of program that we're in for techstars
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and for each of those to do's in this project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They have their own discrete to do. List another layer deeper.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we had Chicago 2023,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and this is under leadership as a list of all the to do lists within that project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when I click that link
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Chicago, Jpm, 2,023 program team, it takes you to another project where all those lists now live.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm just gonna make sure. I repeat that and make it clear to everybody. I have a list of to dos.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and within those to dos
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are links to the actual to do list within a different project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it allows me, as a leader at a high level to see the work that Liliana is doing. But I don't have to worry about micromanaging the work at the lower level, where all the tasks are broken down here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All I care about is that week 9 is planned.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't need to know
Neal Sáles-Griffin: all of what goes into week 9
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at this level of fidelity.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'll give you more examples and keep going. But just to reference this, let me see if I can pull up a list here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Program team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let me keep going.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Here we go. This is the program team to do list that I was talking about. So for here
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is where it is, you know. So you see, week 9 on the bottom right there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if I go back.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I have week 9 here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is within that project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If I go back over here, you see week 9 there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm only tracking Liliana's progress on Week 9 here, for the most part
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as her leader, who's spending my time elsewhere.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: She and the team are working on that list in a much more detailed layout
Neal Sáles-Griffin: over here in the separate project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I just want to make sure that this to do list gets done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is my way of kind of like leading.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but not micromanaging
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it allows those discrete tasks that that goblin tool thing like does, but also, like all of you can just do manually, which you'll probably do today.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Soon.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but it gives us all a clear idea of what needs to happen. To prepare any given program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also, I really enjoy seeing status and progress across our portfolio like I said, I break you all down into seasons.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're in season 12 right now of silicon prairie slash Silicon Valley.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's my like, own internal private TV show and reality show that's been happening running all these textile programs because you all are ridiculous characters. And you're gonna get to know each other and realize how crazy you all are when you hang out. But yeah, it's a whole side show of activities that all being said, this is kind of what it looks like when I organize the work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I I also color code. The companies based on like my own personal like sentiment analysis.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So like, I'll be like, all right. I think this company's in the green like they're good. Yellow is like they need some help like, I gotta spend some more time with them. Red is like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: shits at the fan, and somebody's got to intervene like we. They need help like we gotta we gotta get serious here, you know, so that that all happens. And it's not a judgment or like a character assessment. It's more like company status reference for me
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as a rule of thumb but what all this does. So you see, I have all my companies laid out. I have my team with all their tasks laid out. I have overall for any given program. This is the program team. So like right now, it's Akadena and Chloe and Sylvia. They're all in this program. Team project for us. For San Francisco
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I have this hill chart tool, which I think also has the move. The needle feature now flow that allows you to kind of move things over the hill. So as I'm getting work done, my team submits updates from going up the hill to coming down the hill. Meaning, how much work are we actually getting done? Are we wrapping up this project in this work, or are we in the process of still figuring things out and getting the ball rolling?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's a really helpful kind of framework for that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But, like, I said, these are just features and functionalities, and how I live and work. You can do this anywhere. You can implement a lot of these ideas with whatever tool that you prefer. Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: almost done. So this gives me the headspace. And when I say headspace, I told you all that I know I'm on the ball when I can click a button one click and see everything I need to do today.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is what that looks like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. So when I have all my stuff laid out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I can see the 5 to 10 things I need to do today.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then I know not to worry about what needs to be done tomorrow, because I'm gonna wait till the bomb.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the way that I indicate that both to myself and my team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are through automatic check-ins, not daily stand-ups and not meetings.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I have 4 powerful check-ins that I like to use with my team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What are you working on this week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What are you working on today?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What did you work on today?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And what did you work on this week?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: These are my magic. 4
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Monday morning
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or Tuesday morning when there's a holiday.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My team writes up what they're going to work on this week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I do, too.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're all on the same page.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, I see what Liliana's up to. I see what Neil's up to. We all know what we're up to cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They comment on the Updates to go. Oh, what about this? Or actually, I can take this off your plate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Awesome. Takes 20 min at the start of my Monday morning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Doesn't have to be a huge lift.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So let me see.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, that's where my reflection, I'll show you that in a second. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What am I working on today. That's more real like, okay, today. Here's what I want to give.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: By the way, the thing I showed you before this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sometimes I'll take a screenshot of this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I'll just say, here's what I'm working on today, and I'll add any other layers like if I have meetings or something like that, I'll throw those in in the written update or any other context I need to add, or how I'm feeling, or if it's coming off the weekend, I'll throw a photo of what I was up to. Just like. Let the team know, like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, I'm still cool. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I think this is a reflection at the end of my week. That's what this is. But I was just sharing a reflection on my team. I'm like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: actually.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is what I'm working on this week. That's what this update is. So if you look at this, this is like how Neil thinks about his week
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in like structures his work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's that. But it's really cool, because there's just like 3 big rocks. And then like overall few other things they need to do. And now my team knows exactly what's up, and I don't have to have a conversation with them about it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is, I think, what Brad's working on on a Wednesday, so he's like he's got a full day of meeting, so he's super busy, and he's got 3 big things that he wants to get done. If you look at the bottom there, there's like these little boosts.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Some of you have already figured out how to do this in base camp, but like I'm like, Oh, I read it. I like to just indicate that I read someone's update.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'll just drop drop a little booster and emoji in there if I have nothing to say or ask, but, like I at least want to acknowledge that I was there, and I read
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana's. Talking about how her week went. So this is the end of the week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and she's reflecting on everything that got done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is really helpful, and what I love about both
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what I got through this week and what I got done today.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's it's a way of signing off.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Most of you all don't know how to turn your freaking brains off.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're working, and you'll just never stop working because you're running a really hard, intensive, difficult start up so you don't know when to end your day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're just finding ways to slip in all the self-help and self care things like, oh, I need to eat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or maybe I should go to bed now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or maybe I should take care of myself or do something. Maybe I should call someone who I care about, or a friend
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like you're just sneaking those in around all the work you're doing all the time and see I'm not. I think I'm hidden some. I'm cutting too deep there, I could tell. But I'm saying that to say, though with my team there's a lot of peace of mind
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because their updates are expected between usually 5 and 6 o'clock, maybe even 4 or 5 o'clock.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So between 4 and 6, any given day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm seeing these updates from my team about what they got done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that I'll talk to him tomorrow.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's really awesome. And it it really makes a huge difference when it comes to our own like mental health.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and like our ability to also prioritize our personal care
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and your personal life.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I know as startups and as founders, you're always on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I know this is a big thing to ask of you to do now, so I'm not saying to do this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but I am saying that aspire to do this someday, because, as you bring on team members, you are not going to ask everyone to burn the midnight oil, because not all of them have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the equity that you have in your business, so you, at the very least, need to treat them with care, and thought about how you respect their time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which is what I do, because I do tend to work a lot more than what is documented. But that's more of a personal choice and a habit of me as a fellow founder, and less of something that I would impart upon people who aren't
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at my company or on my team as a founder, but more as an employee.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So does that make sense
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool, almost done here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think William mentioned this before, but I'm really passionate about including
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the schedule in base camp. In addition to the Google Calendar. It's a little ridiculous because we're duplicating work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: meaning we can't. We have to manage both manually. It doesn't automatically synchronize an update.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but it's worth it because of the conversations we can have in base camp about those events.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I can't have a conversation with you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in Google Calendar about the calendar events.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So where do we talk about those events and activities in a way that is very consistent
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and permeable. And so that a year from now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when you're running your business, you've hired 5 people and you want one of your team members to reference something that you went through a tech star, San Francisco.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now you can very easily jump to that date and time
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and see a reference to that activity, or the notes or a link to a recording.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think it's helpful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I encourage all of you to utilize the schedule in base camp to reference any notes that you take in any workshops or sessions any conversations that you want to have to engage people about what was discussed or reflected on. It's really helpful to use as a as a resource for you all to give some permanence to your experience.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana also mentioned this thing called earn the meaning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I do this not only with you all, but with my team as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I break things down pretty clearly for folks in a way where I'm like. No, you need to actually show me
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that you have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: taking the time to think through everything that you want to talk to me about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you want to have a meeting with me, there's a few layers that you need to pass through to make sure it's worth our time, both of us, to take the time to do that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One little Bandaid I have just for you all for founders and for program is, I use Boxer as like my little intermediary.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so like, instead of having a 30 min meeting, let's have a 5 min Boxer chat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Then, if we realize that it takes more than 5 min.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll escalate it to a meeting.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then we'll schedule time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But usually a lot. You'd be shocked at how much can get done in 5 min if you just get to the point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's my style. And I hope you appreciate the time that it'll save you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so part 2 cause I think we can wrap up now. I think we're kind of done early, but I do want to give you a hint and maybe get ahead of the game a little bit on what we're going to cover later today.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Here's what we're gonna do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're going to review founder examples of your week, one priority to dos.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So get those ready.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're gonna add in some goals and show you how to break work down for those of you that either have it broken down. Well, we'll use as examples for those that maybe have it at higher level. We'll help you chisel them and break them down.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're gonna have some breakout sessions where everyone's gonna give each other feedback on their work. This is a really fun activity. By the way, trust me, like every founder like, seems to do well with this, and it allows you all to get to know each other better, because everyone has a different style for how you all manage and think about your work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we'll do some show and tell for those that are particularly proud, or want some specific help from the group on their work, and how they're scoping it, and then we'll wrap up and debrief.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's what to expect from part 2.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But yeah, I would be happy to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and early, but answer any questions before we call it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How'd I do? Was that helpful? Was that a good use of 90 min of your time.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Super.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool. I'm hoping wetting, whetting your appetite for this afternoon.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Scratching the surface. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Huh!
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: May I ask? Maybe a silly, I'm sorry. Was someone going to speak.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No, don't, don't. It's there's no silly questions. If you ask a question, it's probably something that other people wanted to ask, but they didn't even think to ask, or they didn't have the courage or confidence to do so. Yet.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Appreciate that one. No pressure. So I,
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: yeah. So with so base camp, I'm actually pretty more excited about it. Now you've shown me. Because I like that you can have
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: the bird's eye view of all of your projects.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: something that I used to do in my old team as in when I was at Ubs, I used excel not very sexy.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: and the reason for that was on
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I had like an overview sheet where I was able to have an overview kind of timeline of
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: if I'm putting too many tasks on one day, if that makes sense. So if I'm overloaded if there's like too many to do lists and and tasks from all the various projects running. So I just wanted to ask from your experience, because you've got so many different projects running in parallel. How do you? How do you do that? I do you individually go into each project, set your timelines, and then revisit if you've got.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I don't know 50 items on one day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, so okay, let me pull this up again.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is. This is where I'd see my day right.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sometimes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so one that could be a question of whether there's too much you're taking on too much right? So 1st of all, am I taking on too much work, where I have so many tasks, in so many places, that I don't even know how I can manage all that being said. If you notice here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: each of these to dos are within different, to do lists and projects.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So. So so this is actually consolidating them across all of my projects throughout base camp.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Got it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And it puts them all in one place. But what I do when I have a to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that is beefier meaning like there's more in it than just the to do itself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: In the notes of the to do. I'll break down the smaller steps.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Got it. Got it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Like like the goblin tools. So like I'll break down all the other little things I need to do. But I have to do. That means get this thing done. And then there's all the micro steps to actually getting that thing done that I'll lay out.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Got a
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: yeah, that's helpful. It makes sense. I'm just yeah, all clear. Thank you for that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we'll do it this afternoon as well with your with your tasks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so we'll do it. Live, and we'll look at your work.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Oh,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll get ready.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Not to hijack the the mic, but in terms of then, Neil, you you chunking it up because something that while we're still using. Excel, and we sort of take things from teams and then try and chunk them up into those
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: bite size pieces of, say, an hour block. Now we're going to do 25 min blocks. But how do you then take that to do list
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: and start to.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I guess. Piece them together like throughout the day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I will
Neal Sáles-Griffin: choose a task to do so I haven't. I'm sorry for all these tools. By the way, like I said, all of this can be done with pen and paper, and like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a manual timer, so like again, forgive me, for, like my references to tools.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but I use an app called focus to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. It's this one right here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But it'll. It's basically my timer. So I'll put in a task that I have to do from that list here, and I'll hit the start
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on the timer, and then it'll run to my 25 min task just for that job to get done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's I. I just do that all day long until my to do list is gone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Wow! And what's great is that like?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's gone before my day ends, so I always have time at the end of my day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If I'm scoping my life properly, I should be done no later than 4 o'clock.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because I want 4 o'clock to 4, 30 to write my update to my team about what got done.
Fabio Caironi: They're so lucky.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: We're all like, oh.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Just say, just try it out. Try it out for a day, you know. Just try. Just just do me a favor and try out what I'm recommending for one day.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: And.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Say, I'm going to end my day at 5.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm going to start my day at 9.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's nothing against 9 to 5. That's a great amount of time to get work done if it's focused.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Hmm.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If it's not focused, that's when it's not a good use of time. Right? All of a sudden you're taking calls. You're getting distracted. You're doing meetings, you're doing this, that and the other, and you're not in flow.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, you need more than 9 to 5.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You need more than 8 h.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But if you have a lot of dedicated structured work with intention
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like that's all you need any given day, even as a founder.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: In my opinion.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: No, I like this 25 min as well, because it keeps you accountable. I think there's, in a way, an element of scope creep with your tasks if you haven't properly estimated. Okay, I need to put a chunk of time towards it. You can end up spending
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: a few minutes more, and then, by the end, that's that's a couple of hours.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I mean. So the the whole notion of in conversation we had about scope creep
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is also related to your day to day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like any given task. You need to apply the same principles as we do for an overall project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Are we implementing scope Pre today with all the work that I need to do. Am I letting more things layer into it rather than just getting it done and moving on to the other thing? That's important.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Let's do it. Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: anyone else
Neal Sáles-Griffin: get out of here. Y'all if you need to go. Don't worry. We're this is like bonus hours. Now get out of. Here, George, take a nap.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Oh, no, no. I was just gonna ask if you've used the built in Kanban in Base camp at all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, yeah, it's cool. It's called card tables. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah. Okay.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: So that's good. Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's it's it's good. It's good. Yeah, I I'm I mean, I'm less dependent
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on it. But I think for particularly like software projects, I think it's really helpful.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: I want to replace Jira. Yeah. Basically, if I'm going to use base camp because my developers love Jira.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: I'm gonna try and convince them to switch over. So okay, cool. Yeah, I might hit the wall. You're right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Get out of here, man.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: 8 h, or something, so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, my gosh!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's like 2 am. Where you are right now.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Nearly 3. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright! Good night, George!
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Okay, bye, guys.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Shit
Neal Sáles-Griffin: anyone else.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I want to know what kind of sandwich Dominique's eating.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Well, clearly, I've not, you know, been implementing the steps, showing the juice.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Joe, and the juice I I love the quality
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the price matches the quality. Yeah, it's good.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: That's good.
Fabio Caironi: Are you guys already in San Francisco.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, we arrived yesterday evening. So that's
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I'm I'm just constantly hungry. The jet lags great. But yeah, we got here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Awesome.
Fabio Caironi: That's awesome whereabouts.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: We're in Ring on Hill.
Fabio Caironi: Oh, that's yeah. That that's where I used to live. Yeah, I can use some, some prompts. It's not very eventful area. But
Fabio Caironi: yeah, there's definitely Joe, the juice that's that's the one thing that's different.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No news. They got it.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I mean, you really just sold it to us. That's right. I'm really glad we've committed to living here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He's like, Yeah, I used to live there, not a lot going on, but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: school.
Fabio Caironi: That one, or Phil's, or Starbucks. It's the only 3 things you got in the neighborhood. But yeah, other than that, it's cool.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, it's walking distance to the Textiles office. So that was part of the. There's another thing.
Fabio Caironi: Also check out. There's a it's called a crossing at a cubs like a square, and have some food trucks there. If you want to try something different. They have like Pita, you know. It's kind of popping anywhere.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I like that. You're trying to now resell it again. But yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's good. That was good. That was good.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I understand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's funny, awesome. Well, y'all look! I I won't keep you. I won't! I won't. I mean, I'm not around for small talk, because I'm excited to be you all next week. But get out of here, get back to work, and then I'll see you in a few hours for a part 2, where we focus on you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Doodles.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Thank you. Great to meet you, Fabio. Thanks, guys. Bye.